Next up, we have dictionaries.
Dictionaries are a data type that
allow us to store key and value pairs.
Dictionaries themselves aren't mutable,
but
just like sets,
dictionary keys is can only be immutable.
Why?
Because dictionary keys
need to be hashable.
Dictionaries allow fast item lookup and
fast membership testing
you can quickly say, given a key is
this key in my dictionary or not.
And that's because the hash of the key
is compared with the hash of the keys in
the dictionary, don't have to look through
it each item in that dictionary and say,
are are you the item, are you the item,
are you the item that I'm looking for?
So can I have a list as a dictionary and
a key, or I'm sorry,
a list as a key in the dictionary?
If I ask that question correctly,
I would get a better answer.
No.
Right.
So a list is mutable dictionary
keys can only be immutable.
We cannot have mutable data
types as dictionary keys.
Can we have a tuple as a dictionary key?
Yes.
Tuples are immutable, so
we can use them as a dictionary key.
I have a dictionary cheat sheet here for
you.
But let's go through some examples of
what dictionaries in Python look like.
So if sets had curly braces,
dictionaries have curly braces and
colons and
that colon is how you differentiate
between the key and the value.
If I wanted to create an empty dictionary,
how do I do that?
We already saw that.
>> Two curly braces
>> Just two curly braces.
If I wanted to create
dictionaries with items in them,
I would now have to define keys and
values.
So.
And separate them with commas.
So the key is on the left
hand side of the colon,
the value is on the right hand side
of the colon, separated with commas.
And that has now given me a dictionary
with two key value pairs in it.
I can go ahead and assign this to
a variable and then check its type.
And that will show me
that it is a dictionary.
Now, dictionary keys need to be immutable.
Dictionary values do not
have that same restriction.
So you can say my_numbers
are a dictionary and
say, the key is one and
the value is this list.
That is totally fine.
Because when I want to retrieve
this item from my dictionary,
I'll be doing it by its key.
[COUGH] Now, dictionaries,
like sets do not have an order in my dict,
there is no zeroeth item or first item.
If I try to access the zeroeth item,
I'm going to get
an error saying I expect to key and
that key does not exist.
So to access items in a dictionary,
you use the square bracket notation but
instead of providing an index
like you would with a list or
tuple, you instead provide a key.
And now that's going to get the value from
my dictionary that has the key of one.
If I tried to get a value that
doesn't exist again, I got a keyError.
If I wanted to get something
from my dictionary and
not deal with an exception
that I then have to catch,
I can use the get method and this will not
throw an error if that key does not exist.
The get method has a second optional
argument that is a default value.
So I can say, if this key does not exist,
return this default instead.
If I pass in a key here that does exist,
what will I see?
Will I see default?
No, I'm going to get back the number two,
from my dict because that key exists,
therefore the default is not relevant.
To add and remove items from dictionaries,
you can use that same notation that
we used to update items and lists but
instead of passing in a position,
you're going to pass in a key.
So if I wanted to update
the dictionary at key two.
I could use this notation.
And now my dict has that very
silly long string in it.
I could use the same notation for
adding items to the dictionary
that don't already exist.
And now I have a new key in there.
Just like with sets, you could update, you
can call the update on a dictionary and
pass in another dictionary and that will
combine the two dictionaries together.
So whatever dictionary you're calling
the update on will be the one
that is modified.
You can have pretty complex dictionaries,
remember a dictionary can
have a list as a value.
Let's say this key is one and
the value is a list.
If I call my_nums and
pass in this key of one,
I'm going to get back a list.
I can call .append on a list,
which means that I can just
chain these actions together.
So if I know that this returns a list,
I can call .append on it and
append to this list just
like I normally would.
Now, if I look at my dictionary, Oops!
And I spell it correctly we'll see
that I have upended a list to my list.
So dictionaries can get very complex,
the values in them can be objects.
So know that when you look at
them you might have to break down
which type is which in the value and
be mindful of, curly braces,
parentheses, square brackets to
figure out what type is what.
If you want to work with the.
Values in a dictionary.
There are three methods that
you need to know about.
One is .keys,
that will get you all of the keys.
One is .values,
that will get you all of the values but
the most important one that you're going
to use most often Is my_dict.items and
that's going to return all of the key and
value pairs.
When you're going to try to loop over a
dictionary, you might expect that what is
actually returned is going to be
the items the key value pairs but
unfortunately, that is not correct.
When you loop over a dictionary with
actually returned is just the keys.
So something to be mindful of,
if you want to loop over a dictionary,
which we'll look at later,
you want to make sure that you call
.items on it to get both the key and
the value pairs.
So just a quick thing about mutability,
the simple types in float,
decimal, string, Boolean,
tuple, those are immutable.
Lists, sets, dictionaries are mutable.
So if you don't remember,
take a look at the mutability cheat sheet.
For the time being, we are going to skip
over the practice for this chapter and
go through it with the next chapter.